README.md, before:

# TinyBrain 🧠

**Security-Focused LLM Memory Storage MCP Server**

TinyBrain is a comprehensive memory storage system designed specifically for security-focused tasks like security code review, penetration testing, and exploit development. It provides an LLM with persistent, intelligent memory capabilities through the Model Context Protocol (MCP).

## 🎯 Key Features

### Security-Focused Design
- **Specialized Categories**: Vulnerability, exploit, payload, technique, tool, reference, context, hypothesis, evidence, recommendation
- **Priority & Confidence Tracking**: 0-10 priority levels and 0.0-1.0 confidence scores
- **Relationship Mapping**: Track dependencies, causes, mitigations, and exploit chains
- **Task Progress Tracking**: Multi-stage security task management
- **Standards Compliance**: Aligned with OWASP, CWE, NIST, and ISO security standards

### Intelligent Memory Management
- **Context-Aware Storage**: Automatically categorizes and prioritizes information
- **Advanced Search**: Semantic, exact, fuzzy, tag-based, and relationship-based search
- **Access Tracking**: Monitors which memories are most relevant and frequently accessed
- **Context Summaries**: Provides relevant memory summaries for current tasks

### High Performance & Reliability
- **SQLite Backend**: Fast, reliable, local storage with full-text search
- **Optimized Queries**: Indexed searches and efficient relationship traversal
- **Transaction Safety**: ACID compliance for data integrity
- **Concurrent Access**: Thread-safe operations for multiple LLM interactions

### AI-Enhanced Search & Intelligence
- **Semantic Search**: AI-powered memory search using embeddings for conceptual similarity
- **Embedding Generation**: Generate embeddings for text (placeholder for AI integration)
- **Similarity Calculation**: Calculate semantic similarity between embeddings
- **Future-Ready**: Complete foundation for OpenAI, Cohere, or local model integration

### Real-Time Notifications & Alerts
- **Memory Notifications**: Real-time alerts for memory events and system activities
- **High Priority Alerts**: Notifications for high-priority memories (priority ≥8, confidence ≥0.8)
- **Duplicate Detection**: Alerts for potential duplicate memories with similarity scores
- **Cleanup Notifications**: Notifications for automated cleanup operations
- **Notification Management**: Mark notifications as read, filter by session, priority-based sorting

### Developer Experience
- **Simple Installation**: `go install` or `go build`
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logging with structured output
- **Extensive Testing**: 90%+ test coverage with benchmarks
- **Docker Support**: Containerized deployment ready
- **40 MCP Tools**: Complete API for all memory management operations

## 🛠️ Complete MCP Tool Set (40 Tools)

TinyBrain provides a comprehensive set of 40 MCP tools for complete LLM memory management:

### Core Memory Operations (8 tools)
- `store_memory` - Store new memory entries
- `get_memory` - Retrieve memory by ID
- `search_memories` - Advanced search with multiple strategies
- `update_memory` - Update existing memory entries
- `delete_memory` - Delete memory entries
- `find_similar_memories` - Find similar memories by content
- `check_duplicates` - Check for duplicate memories
- `get_memory_stats` - Get comprehensive memory statistics

### Session & Task Management (6 tools)
- `create_session` - Create new security assessment sessions
- `get_session` - Retrieve session information
- `list_sessions` - List all sessions with filtering
- `create_task_progress` - Create task progress entries
- `update_task_progress` - Update task progress
- `list_task_progress` - List task progress entries

### Advanced Memory Features (8 tools)
- `create_relationship` - Create memory relationships
- `get_related_memories` - Get related memories
- `create_context_snapshot` - Create context snapshots
- `get_context_snapshot` - Retrieve context snapshots
- `list_context_snapshots` - List context snapshots
- `get_context_summary` - Get memory summaries for context
- `export_session_data` - Export session data
- `import_session_data` - Import session data

### Security Templates & Batch Operations (6 tools)
- `get_security_templates` - Get predefined security templates
- `create_memory_from_template` - Create memories from templates
- `batch_create_memories` - Bulk create memory entries
- `batch_update_memories` - Bulk update memory entries
- `batch_delete_memories` - Bulk delete memory entries
- `get_detailed_memory_info` - Get detailed memory debugging info

### Memory Lifecycle & Cleanup (4 tools)
- `cleanup_old_memories` - Age-based memory cleanup
- `cleanup_low_priority_memories` - Priority-based cleanup
- `cleanup_unused_memories` - Access-based cleanup
- `get_system_diagnostics` - Comprehensive system diagnostics

### AI-Enhanced Search (3 tools)
- `semantic_search` - AI-powered semantic search
- `generate_embedding` - Generate embeddings for text
- `calculate_similarity` - Calculate embedding similarity

### Real-Time Notifications (4 tools)
- `get_notifications` - Get notifications and alerts
- `mark_notification_read` - Mark notifications as read
- `check_high_priority_memories` - Check for high-priority alerts
- `check_duplicate_memories` - Check for duplicate alerts

### System Monitoring (1 tool)
- `health_check` - Perform system health checks

## 🛡️ Security Standards & Source Attribution

### **Standards Compliance**
TinyBrain's security patterns and vulnerability datasets are aligned with industry-standard security frameworks:

- **[OWASP Top 10 2021](https://owasp.org/Top10/)** - Web Application Security Risks
- **[CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration)](https://cwe.mitre.org/)** - Software Weakness Classification
- **[NIST SP 800-115](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-115/final)** - Technical Guide to Information Security Testing
- **[ISO 27001](https://www.iso.org/isoiec-27001-information-security.html)** - Information Security Management Systems
- **[PTES (Penetration Testing Execution Standard)](http://www.pentest-standard.org/)** - Penetration Testing Methodology

### **Source Attribution**
Our security patterns and vulnerability datasets are based on authoritative sources:

- **[OWASP Code Review Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-code-review-guide)** - Comprehensive secure code review methodology
- **[OWASP Secure Coding Dojo](https://owasp.org/SecureCodingDojo/codereview101/)** - Interactive security code review training
- **[OWASP Testing Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/)** - Web application security testing methodology
- **[SANS Top 25 CWE](https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/)** - Most dangerous software errors
- **[NIST Cybersecurity Framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)** - Cybersecurity risk management

### **Multi-Language Coverage**
Our security patterns cover 10 major programming languages with language-specific vulnerability patterns:

- **JavaScript/Node.js** - Web application security patterns
- **Python** - Backend and automation security patterns  
- **Java** - Enterprise application security patterns
- **C#/.NET** - Microsoft ecosystem security patterns
- **PHP** - Web application security patterns
- **Ruby** - Web framework security patterns
- **Go** - System and API security patterns
- **C/C++** - System-level security patterns
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe web application patterns
- **Rust** - Memory-safe system programming patterns

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Method 1: Clone and build locally (recommended)
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain
make install

# Method 2: Install from source (if repository is public)
go install github.com/rainmana/tinybrain/cmd/server@latest

# Method 3: Build binary directly
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain
go build -o tinybrain cmd/server/main.go
sudo mv tinybrain /usr/local/bin/
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Start the server (uses ~/.tinybrain/memory.db by default)
tinybrain

# Or with custom database path
TINYBRAIN_DB_PATH=/path/to/your/memory.db tinybrain
```

### Troubleshooting Installation

If you encounter issues with `go install`, try these solutions:

```bash
# If you get authentication errors, use direct clone method
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain
go build -o tinybrain cmd/server/main.go

# If repository is private, ensure you have access
git config --global url."git@github.com:".insteadOf "https://github.com/"

# For Go module proxy issues, use direct mode
GOPROXY=direct go install github.com/rainmana/tinybrain/cmd/server@latest
```

### MCP Client Configuration

Add to your MCP client configuration (e.g., Claude Desktop):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "tinybrain": {
      "command": "tinybrain",
      "args": [],
      "env": {
        "TINYBRAIN_DB_PATH": "~/.tinybrain/memory.db"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## 📚 API Reference

### Session Management

#### Create Session
```json
{
  "name": "create_session",
  "arguments": {
    "name": "Web App Security Review",
    "description": "Comprehensive security review of web application",
    "task_type": "security_review",
    "metadata": "{\"target\": \"myapp.com\", \"scope\": \"web-application\"}"
  }
}
```

**Task Types**: `security_review`, `penetration_test`, `exploit_dev`, `vulnerability_analysis`, `threat_modeling`, `incident_response`, `general`

#### List Sessions
```json
{
  "name": "list_sessions",
  "arguments": {
    "task_type": "security_review",
    "status": "active",
    "limit": 10
  }
}
```

### Memory Operations

#### Store Memory
```json
{
  "name": "store_memory",
  "arguments": {
    "session_id": "session_123",
    "title": "SQL Injection in Login Form",
    "content": "Found SQL injection vulnerability in username parameter of login form. Payload: ' OR 1=1--",
    "category": "vulnerability",
    "content_type": "text",
    "priority": 8,
    "confidence": 0.9,
    "tags": "[\"sql-injection\", \"authentication\", \"critical\"]",
    "source": "manual-testing"
  }
}
```

**Categories**: `finding`, `vulnerability`, `exploit`, `payload`, `technique`, `tool`, `reference`, `context`, `hypothesis`, `evidence`, `recommendation`, `note`

#### Search Memories
```json
{
  "name": "search_memories",
  "arguments": {
    "query": "SQL injection authentication",
    "session_id": "session_123",
    "search_type": "semantic",
    "categories": "[\"vulnerability\", \"exploit\"]",
    "min_priority": 7,
    "limit": 20
  }
}
```

**Search Types**: `semantic`, `exact`, `fuzzy`, `tag`, `category`, `relationship`

#### Get Related Memories
```json
{
  "name": "get_related_memories",
  "arguments": {
    "memory_id": "memory_456",
    "relationship_type": "exploits",
    "limit": 10
  }
}
```

### Relationship Management

#### Create Relationship
```json
{
  "name": "create_relationship",
  "arguments": {
    "source_memory_id": "memory_123",
    "target_memory_id": "memory_456",
    "relationship_type": "exploits",
    "strength": 0.8,
    "description": "SQL injection can be used to bypass authentication"
  }
}
```

**Relationship Types**: `depends_on`, `causes`, `mitigates`, `exploits`, `references`, `contradicts`, `supports`, `related_to`, `parent_of`, `child_of`

### Context Management

#### Get Context Summary
```json
{
  "name": "get_context_summary",
  "arguments": {
    "session_id": "session_123",
    "current_task": "Analyzing authentication vulnerabilities",
    "max_memories": 20
  }
}
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Database Schema

```sql
-- Core tables
sessions              -- LLM interaction sessions
memory_entries        -- Individual pieces of information
relationships         -- Links between memory entries
context_snapshots     -- Saved context states
search_history        -- Search query tracking
task_progress         -- Multi-stage task progress

-- Views and indexes
memory_entries_fts    -- Full-text search virtual table
memory_entries_with_session  -- Enhanced memory view
relationship_network  -- Relationship analysis view
```

### Key Design Principles

1. **Security-First**: All data structures and operations designed for security tasks
2. **Performance**: Optimized queries and indexes for fast retrieval
3. **Flexibility**: Extensible schema and relationship system
4. **Reliability**: ACID transactions and data integrity checks
5. **Usability**: Simple API with comprehensive documentation

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run tests with coverage
go test -v -race -coverprofile=coverage.out ./...
go tool cover -html=coverage.out -o coverage.html

# Run benchmarks
make bench

# Run specific test
go test -v ./internal/database -run TestNewDatabase
```

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

```bash
# Build Docker image
make docker-build

# Run container
docker run --rm -it \
  -v ~/.tinybrain:/app/data \
  tinybrain:latest
```

## 📊 Performance

### Benchmarks

- **Memory Entry Creation**: ~1000 entries/second
- **Search Operations**: ~100 searches/second
- **Relationship Queries**: ~500 queries/second
- **Database Size**: ~1MB per 10,000 memory entries

### Optimization Features

- **Connection Pooling**: Optimized for SQLite single-writer model
- **Index Strategy**: Comprehensive indexing for all query patterns
- **Full-Text Search**: FTS5 virtual tables for semantic search
- **Caching**: Access pattern tracking for intelligent caching

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

- `TINYBRAIN_DB_PATH`: Path to SQLite database (default: `~/.tinybrain/memory.db`)
- `TINYBRAIN_LOG_LEVEL`: Log level (debug, info, warn, error)

### Database Configuration

The SQLite database is configured with:
- WAL mode for better concurrency
- Foreign key constraints enabled
- Full-text search enabled
- Optimized pragma settings

## 🛡️ Security Datasets & Templates

### **Comprehensive Security Patterns**
- **[Security Code Review Dataset](SECURITY_CODE_REVIEW_DATASET.md)** - OWASP Top 10 2021 patterns, CWE vulnerabilities, and exploitation techniques
- **[Multi-Language Security Patterns](MULTI_LANGUAGE_SECURITY_PATTERNS.md)** - Language-specific vulnerability patterns for 10 programming languages
- **[TinyBrain Security Templates](TINYBRAIN_SECURITY_TEMPLATES.md)** - Pre-configured memory templates for consistent security assessment storage

### **AI Assistant Configurations**
- **[Cursor Rules](.cursorrules)** - Security assessment rules for Cursor AI assistant
- **[Cline Rules](.clinerules)** - Code review and exploitation framework for Cline
- **[Roo Mode](.roo-mode)** - Penetration testing configuration for Roo AI assistant
- **[User Configuration Template](.cursorrules.user-template)** - Customizable user configuration template

### **Standards-Based Approach**
All security patterns are derived from authoritative sources and aligned with industry standards:

- **OWASP Top 10 2021** - Based on [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/Top10/) web application security risks
- **CWE Patterns** - Derived from [Common Weakness Enumeration](https://cwe.mitre.org/) software weakness classification
- **Code Review Standards** - Aligned with [OWASP Code Review Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-code-review-guide)
- **Training Integration** - Compatible with [OWASP Secure Coding Dojo](https://owasp.org/SecureCodingDojo/codereview101/)
- **Testing Methodology** - Follows [NIST SP 800-115](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-115/final) security testing guidelines

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new functionality
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Submit a pull request

### Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain

# Setup development environment
make dev-setup

# Run tests
make test

# Build
make build
```

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

### **Technical Dependencies**
- [mcp-go](https://github.com/mark3labs/mcp-go) for MCP server framework
- [go-sqlite3](https://github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3) for SQLite driver
- [charmbracelet/log](https://github.com/charmbracelet/log) for structured logging

### **Security Standards & Sources**
- [OWASP](https://owasp.org/) for security standards and vulnerability classifications
- [OWASP Code Review Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-code-review-guide) for secure code review methodology
- [OWASP Secure Coding Dojo](https://owasp.org/SecureCodingDojo/codereview101/) for interactive security training
- [CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration)](https://cwe.mitre.org/) for software weakness classification
- [NIST](https://www.nist.gov/) for cybersecurity frameworks and testing guidelines
- [SANS](https://www.sans.org/) for security research and training materials

## 📈 Roadmap

- [ ] HTTP transport support
- [ ] Memory compression and archiving
- [ ] Advanced analytics and insights
- [ ] Multi-user support with access controls
- [ ] Plugin system for custom memory types
- [ ] Integration with popular security tools
- [ ] Web dashboard for memory visualization

---

**TinyBrain** - Making LLM memory storage intelligent, fast, and security-focused. 🧠🔒

Commit message:

Add LLM-optimized CWE dataset and integration guide
- Create CWE_LLM_DATASET.json with structured JSON format for LLM consumption
- Include CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors with searchable indexes
- Add CWE_TINYBRAIN_INTEGRATION.md with efficient integration workflows
- Optimize for context window efficiency with severity, language, and category indexes
- Provide TinyBrain-ready templates and commands for CWE pattern storage
- Include correlation capabilities for pattern matching and standards mapping
- Add performance optimization strategies for memory management
- Update README.md with new CWE dataset links and descriptions

This LLM-optimized CWE dataset provides efficient, searchable, and context-aware
vulnerability patterns for professional security assessments using TinyBrain.

README.md, after:

# TinyBrain 🧠

**Security-Focused LLM Memory Storage MCP Server**

TinyBrain is a comprehensive memory storage system designed specifically for security-focused tasks like security code review, penetration testing, and exploit development. It provides an LLM with persistent, intelligent memory capabilities through the Model Context Protocol (MCP).

## 🎯 Key Features

### Security-Focused Design
- **Specialized Categories**: Vulnerability, exploit, payload, technique, tool, reference, context, hypothesis, evidence, recommendation
- **Priority & Confidence Tracking**: 0-10 priority levels and 0.0-1.0 confidence scores
- **Relationship Mapping**: Track dependencies, causes, mitigations, and exploit chains
- **Task Progress Tracking**: Multi-stage security task management
- **Standards Compliance**: Aligned with OWASP, CWE, NIST, and ISO security standards

### Intelligent Memory Management
- **Context-Aware Storage**: Automatically categorizes and prioritizes information
- **Advanced Search**: Semantic, exact, fuzzy, tag-based, and relationship-based search
- **Access Tracking**: Monitors which memories are most relevant and frequently accessed
- **Context Summaries**: Provides relevant memory summaries for current tasks

### High Performance & Reliability
- **SQLite Backend**: Fast, reliable, local storage with full-text search
- **Optimized Queries**: Indexed searches and efficient relationship traversal
- **Transaction Safety**: ACID compliance for data integrity
- **Concurrent Access**: Thread-safe operations for multiple LLM interactions

### AI-Enhanced Search & Intelligence
- **Semantic Search**: AI-powered memory search using embeddings for conceptual similarity
- **Embedding Generation**: Generate embeddings for text (placeholder for AI integration)
- **Similarity Calculation**: Calculate semantic similarity between embeddings
- **Future-Ready**: Complete foundation for OpenAI, Cohere, or local model integration

### Real-Time Notifications & Alerts
- **Memory Notifications**: Real-time alerts for memory events and system activities
- **High Priority Alerts**: Notifications for high-priority memories (priority ≥8, confidence ≥0.8)
- **Duplicate Detection**: Alerts for potential duplicate memories with similarity scores
- **Cleanup Notifications**: Notifications for automated cleanup operations
- **Notification Management**: Mark notifications as read, filter by session, priority-based sorting

### Developer Experience
- **Simple Installation**: `go install` or `go build`
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logging with structured output
- **Extensive Testing**: 90%+ test coverage with benchmarks
- **Docker Support**: Containerized deployment ready
- **40 MCP Tools**: Complete API for all memory management operations

## 🛠️ Complete MCP Tool Set (40 Tools)

TinyBrain provides a comprehensive set of 40 MCP tools for complete LLM memory management:

### Core Memory Operations (8 tools)
- `store_memory` - Store new memory entries
- `get_memory` - Retrieve memory by ID
- `search_memories` - Advanced search with multiple strategies
- `update_memory` - Update existing memory entries
- `delete_memory` - Delete memory entries
- `find_similar_memories` - Find similar memories by content
- `check_duplicates` - Check for duplicate memories
- `get_memory_stats` - Get comprehensive memory statistics

### Session & Task Management (6 tools)
- `create_session` - Create new security assessment sessions
- `get_session` - Retrieve session information
- `list_sessions` - List all sessions with filtering
- `create_task_progress` - Create task progress entries
- `update_task_progress` - Update task progress
- `list_task_progress` - List task progress entries

### Advanced Memory Features (8 tools)
- `create_relationship` - Create memory relationships
- `get_related_memories` - Get related memories
- `create_context_snapshot` - Create context snapshots
- `get_context_snapshot` - Retrieve context snapshots
- `list_context_snapshots` - List context snapshots
- `get_context_summary` - Get memory summaries for context
- `export_session_data` - Export session data
- `import_session_data` - Import session data

### Security Templates & Batch Operations (6 tools)
- `get_security_templates` - Get predefined security templates
- `create_memory_from_template` - Create memories from templates
- `batch_create_memories` - Bulk create memory entries
- `batch_update_memories` - Bulk update memory entries
- `batch_delete_memories` - Bulk delete memory entries
- `get_detailed_memory_info` - Get detailed memory debugging info

### Memory Lifecycle & Cleanup (4 tools)
- `cleanup_old_memories` - Age-based memory cleanup
- `cleanup_low_priority_memories` - Priority-based cleanup
- `cleanup_unused_memories` - Access-based cleanup
- `get_system_diagnostics` - Comprehensive system diagnostics

### AI-Enhanced Search (3 tools)
- `semantic_search` - AI-powered semantic search
- `generate_embedding` - Generate embeddings for text
- `calculate_similarity` - Calculate embedding similarity

### Real-Time Notifications (4 tools)
- `get_notifications` - Get notifications and alerts
- `mark_notification_read` - Mark notifications as read
- `check_high_priority_memories` - Check for high-priority alerts
- `check_duplicate_memories` - Check for duplicate alerts

### System Monitoring (1 tool)
- `health_check` - Perform system health checks

## 🛡️ Security Standards & Source Attribution

### **Standards Compliance**
TinyBrain's security patterns and vulnerability datasets are aligned with industry-standard security frameworks:

- **[OWASP Top 10 2021](https://owasp.org/Top10/)** - Web Application Security Risks
- **[CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration)](https://cwe.mitre.org/)** - Software Weakness Classification
- **[NIST SP 800-115](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-115/final)** - Technical Guide to Information Security Testing
- **[ISO 27001](https://www.iso.org/isoiec-27001-information-security.html)** - Information Security Management Systems
- **[PTES (Penetration Testing Execution Standard)](http://www.pentest-standard.org/)** - Penetration Testing Methodology

### **Source Attribution**
Our security patterns and vulnerability datasets are based on authoritative sources:

- **[OWASP Code Review Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-code-review-guide)** - Comprehensive secure code review methodology
- **[OWASP Secure Coding Dojo](https://owasp.org/SecureCodingDojo/codereview101/)** - Interactive security code review training
- **[OWASP Testing Guide](https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/)** - Web application security testing methodology
- **[SANS Top 25 CWE](https://cwe.mitre.org/top25/)** - Most dangerous software errors
- **[NIST Cybersecurity Framework](https://www.nist.gov/cyberframework)** - Cybersecurity risk management

### **Multi-Language Coverage**
Our security patterns cover 10 major programming languages with language-specific vulnerability patterns:

- **JavaScript/Node.js** - Web application security patterns
- **Python** - Backend and automation security patterns  
- **Java** - Enterprise application security patterns
- **C#/.NET** - Microsoft ecosystem security patterns
- **PHP** - Web application security patterns
- **Ruby** - Web framework security patterns
- **Go** - System and API security patterns
- **C/C++** - System-level security patterns
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe web application patterns
- **Rust** - Memory-safe system programming patterns

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Installation

```bash
# Method 1: Clone and build locally (recommended)
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain
make install

# Method 2: Install from source (if repository is public)
go install github.com/rainmana/tinybrain/cmd/server@latest

# Method 3: Build binary directly
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain
go build -o tinybrain cmd/server/main.go
sudo mv tinybrain /usr/local/bin/
```

### Basic Usage

```bash
# Start the server (uses ~/.tinybrain/memory.db by default)
tinybrain

# Or with custom database path
TINYBRAIN_DB_PATH=/path/to/your/memory.db tinybrain
```

### Troubleshooting Installation

If you encounter issues with `go install`, try these solutions:

```bash
# If you get authentication errors, use direct clone method
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain
go build -o tinybrain cmd/server/main.go

# If repository is private, ensure you have access
git config --global url."git@github.com:".insteadOf "https://github.com/"

# For Go module proxy issues, use direct mode
GOPROXY=direct go install github.com/rainmana/tinybrain/cmd/server@latest
```

### MCP Client Configuration

Add to your MCP client configuration (e.g., Claude Desktop):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "tinybrain": {
      "command": "tinybrain",
      "args": [],
      "env": {
        "TINYBRAIN_DB_PATH": "~/.tinybrain/memory.db"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## 📚 API Reference

### Session Management

#### Create Session
```json
{
  "name": "create_session",
  "arguments": {
    "name": "Web App Security Review",
    "description": "Comprehensive security review of web application",
    "task_type": "security_review",
    "metadata": "{\"target\": \"myapp.com\", \"scope\": \"web-application\"}"
  }
}
```

**Task Types**: `security_review`, `penetration_test`, `exploit_dev`, `vulnerability_analysis`, `threat_modeling`, `incident_response`, `general`

#### List Sessions
```json
{
  "name": "list_sessions",
  "arguments": {
    "task_type": "security_review",
    "status": "active",
    "limit": 10
  }
}
```

### Memory Operations

#### Store Memory
```json
{
  "name": "store_memory",
  "arguments": {
    "session_id": "session_123",
    "title": "SQL Injection in Login Form",
    "content": "Found SQL injection vulnerability in username parameter of login form. Payload: ' OR 1=1--",
    "category": "vulnerability",
    "content_type": "text",
    "priority": 8,
    "confidence": 0.9,
    "tags": "[\"sql-injection\", \"authentication\", \"critical\"]",
    "source": "manual-testing"
  }
}
```

**Categories**: `finding`, `vulnerability`, `exploit`, `payload`, `technique`, `tool`, `reference`, `context`, `hypothesis`, `evidence`, `recommendation`, `note`

#### Search Memories
```json
{
  "name": "search_memories",
  "arguments": {
    "query": "SQL injection authentication",
    "session_id": "session_123",
    "search_type": "semantic",
    "categories": "[\"vulnerability\", \"exploit\"]",
    "min_priority": 7,
    "limit": 20
  }
}
```

**Search Types**: `semantic`, `exact`, `fuzzy`, `tag`, `category`, `relationship`

#### Get Related Memories
```json
{
  "name": "get_related_memories",
  "arguments": {
    "memory_id": "memory_456",
    "relationship_type": "exploits",
    "limit": 10
  }
}
```

### Relationship Management

#### Create Relationship
```json
{
  "name": "create_relationship",
  "arguments": {
    "source_memory_id": "memory_123",
    "target_memory_id": "memory_456",
    "relationship_type": "exploits",
    "strength": 0.8,
    "description": "SQL injection can be used to bypass authentication"
  }
}
```

**Relationship Types**: `depends_on`, `causes`, `mitigates`, `exploits`, `references`, `contradicts`, `supports`, `related_to`, `parent_of`, `child_of`

### Context Management

#### Get Context Summary
```json
{
  "name": "get_context_summary",
  "arguments": {
    "session_id": "session_123",
    "current_task": "Analyzing authentication vulnerabilities",
    "max_memories": 20
  }
}
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Database Schema

```sql
-- Core tables
sessions              -- LLM interaction sessions
memory_entries        -- Individual pieces of information
relationships         -- Links between memory entries
context_snapshots     -- Saved context states
search_history        -- Search query tracking
task_progress         -- Multi-stage task progress

-- Views and indexes
memory_entries_fts    -- Full-text search virtual table
memory_entries_with_session  -- Enhanced memory view
relationship_network  -- Relationship analysis view
```

### Key Design Principles

1. **Security-First**: All data structures and operations designed for security tasks
2. **Performance**: Optimized queries and indexes for fast retrieval
3. **Flexibility**: Extensible schema and relationship system
4. **Reliability**: ACID transactions and data integrity checks
5. **Usability**: Simple API with comprehensive documentation

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
make test

# Run tests with coverage
go test -v -race -coverprofile=coverage.out ./...
go tool cover -html=coverage.out -o coverage.html

# Run benchmarks
make bench

# Run specific test
go test -v ./internal/database -run TestNewDatabase
```

## 🐳 Docker Deployment

```bash
# Build Docker image
make docker-build

# Run container
docker run --rm -it \
  -v ~/.tinybrain:/app/data \
  tinybrain:latest
```

## 📊 Performance

### Benchmarks

- **Memory Entry Creation**: ~1000 entries/second
- **Search Operations**: ~100 searches/second
- **Relationship Queries**: ~500 queries/second
- **Database Size**: ~1MB per 10,000 memory entries

### Optimization Features

- **Connection Pooling**: Optimized for SQLite single-writer model
- **Index Strategy**: Comprehensive indexing for all query patterns
- **Full-Text Search**: FTS5 virtual tables for semantic search
- **Caching**: Access pattern tracking for intelligent caching

## 🔧 Configuration

### Environment Variables

- `TINYBRAIN_DB_PATH`: Path to SQLite database (default: `~/.tinybrain/memory.db`)
- `TINYBRAIN_LOG_LEVEL`: Log level (debug, info, warn, error)

### Database Configuration

The SQLite database is configured with:
- WAL mode for better concurrency
- Foreign key constraints enabled
- Full-text search enabled
- Optimized pragma settings

## 🛡️ Security Datasets & Templates

### **Comprehensive Security Patterns**
- **[Security Code Review Dataset](SECURITY_CODE_REVIEW_DATASET.md)** - OWASP Top 10 2021 patterns, CWE vulnerabilities, and exploitation techniques
- **[Multi-Language Security Patterns](MULTI_LANGUAGE_SECURITY_PATTERNS.md)** - Language-specific vulnerability patterns for 10 programming languages
- **[CWE Security Patterns](CWE_SECURITY_PATTERNS.md)** - CWE Top 25 Most Dangerous Software Errors with comprehensive vulnerability patterns
- **[CWE LLM Dataset](CWE_LLM_DATASET.json)** - LLM-optimized CWE dataset in structured JSON format for efficient consumption
- **[CWE TinyBrain Integration](CWE_TINYBRAIN_INTEGRATION.md)** - Integration guide for CWE dataset with TinyBrain memory system
- **[TinyBrain Security Templates](TINYBRAIN_SECURITY_TEMPLATES.md)** - Pre-configured memory templates for consistent security assessment storage

### **AI Assistant Configurations**
- **[Cursor Rules](.cursorrules)** - Security assessment rules for Cursor AI assistant
- **[Cline Rules](.clinerules)** - Code review and exploitation framework for Cline
- **[Roo Mode](.roo-mode)** - Penetration testing configuration for Roo AI assistant
- **[User Configuration Template](.cursorrules.user-template)** - Customizable user configuration template

### **Standards-Based Approach**
All security patterns are derived from authoritative sources and aligned with industry standards:

- **OWASP Top 10 2021** - Based on [OWASP Top 10](https://owasp.org/Top10/) web application security risks
- **CWE Patterns** - Derived from [Common Weakness Enumeration](https://cwe.mitre.org/) software weakness classification
- **Code Review Standards** - Aligned with [OWASP Code Review Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-code-review-guide)
- **Training Integration** - Compatible with [OWASP Secure Coding Dojo](https://owasp.org/SecureCodingDojo/codereview101/)
- **Testing Methodology** - Follows [NIST SP 800-115](https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-115/final) security testing guidelines

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Add tests for new functionality
4. Ensure all tests pass
5. Submit a pull request

### Development Setup

```bash
# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/rainmana/tinybrain.git
cd tinybrain

# Setup development environment
make dev-setup

# Run tests
make test

# Build
make build
```

## 📄 License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

### **Technical Dependencies**
- [mcp-go](https://github.com/mark3labs/mcp-go) for MCP server framework
- [go-sqlite3](https://github.com/mattn/go-sqlite3) for SQLite driver
- [charmbracelet/log](https://github.com/charmbracelet/log) for structured logging

### **Security Standards & Sources**
- [OWASP](https://owasp.org/) for security standards and vulnerability classifications
- [OWASP Code Review Guide](https://github.com/OWASP/www-project-code-review-guide) for secure code review methodology
- [OWASP Secure Coding Dojo](https://owasp.org/SecureCodingDojo/codereview101/) for interactive security training
- [CWE (Common Weakness Enumeration)](https://cwe.mitre.org/) for software weakness classification
- [NIST](https://www.nist.gov/) for cybersecurity frameworks and testing guidelines
- [SANS](https://www.sans.org/) for security research and training materials

## 📈 Roadmap

- [ ] HTTP transport support
- [ ] Memory compression and archiving
- [ ] Advanced analytics and insights
- [ ] Multi-user support with access controls
- [ ] Plugin system for custom memory types
- [ ] Integration with popular security tools
- [ ] Web dashboard for memory visualization

---

**TinyBrain** - Making LLM memory storage intelligent, fast, and security-focused. 🧠🔒
